backend/README.md, before:

# newsportal-backend

## Table of Contents
1. [Project Structure](#backend-project-structure)
2. [Project's Packages](#packages-needed-for-this-project)
3. [How to Use](#how-to-use)
4. [Start the Project](#start-the-project)
5. [Docker Implementation](#docker-implementation)

## Backend Project Structure
```
newsportal/
└── backend/
    ├── cmd/
    │   ├── root.go                                             -> Config Initialization and Executor
    │   └── start.go                                            -> Server Runner
    │
    ├── config/
    │   ├── cloudflareR2.go                                     -> Cloudflare Object Storage Config Loader
    │   ├── config.go                                           -> Environment Table Reader
    │   └── database.go                                         -> Database Configuration
    │
    ├── database/
    │   ├── migrations/                                         -> Database Migration File (using go-migrate)
    │   │   ├── 000001_create_users_table.down.sql              -> Drop Table Users
    │   │   ├── 000001_create_users_table.up.sql                -> Create Table Users
    │   │   ├── 000002_create_categories_table.down.sql         -> Drop Table Categories
    │   │   ├── 000002_create_categories_table.up.sql           -> Create Table Categories
    │   │   ├── 000003_create_contents_table.down.sql           -> Drop Table Contents
    │   │   └── 000003_create_contents_table.up.sql             -> Create Table Contents
    │   │
    │   └── seeds/                                              -> Database Seed File
    │       └── user_seeder.go                                  -> Users table Seeder
    │
    ├── docs/                                                   -> API Documentation using Swagger
    │   └── swagger.json                                        -> Definition Table for Swagger
    │
    ├── internal/
    │   ├── adapter/
    │   │   ├── cloudflare/                                     -> Cloudflare Interaction
    │   │   │   └── r2.go
    │   │   │
    │   │   ├── handler/                                        -> Main Application Handler
    │   │   │   ├── request/                                    -> User Input Request
    │   │   │   │   ├── auth_request.go
    │   │   │   │   ├── category_request.go
    │   │   │   │   ├── content_request.go
    │   │   │   │   ├── file_upload_request.go
    │   │   │   │   └── user_request.go
    │   │   │   │
    │   │   │   ├── response/                                   -> Application's Response
    │   │   │   │   ├── auth_response.go
    │   │   │   │   ├── category_response.go
    │   │   │   │   ├── content_response.go
    │   │   │   │   ├── default_response.go
    │   │   │   │   └── user_response.go
    │   │   │   │
    │   │   │   ├── auth_handler.go
    │   │   │   ├── category_handler.go
    │   │   │   ├── content_handler.go
    │   │   │   └── user_handler.go
    │   │   │
    │   │   └── repository/                                     -> Application's Repository
    │   │       ├── auth_repository.go
    │   │       ├── category_repository.go
    │   │       ├── content_repository.go
    │   │       └── user_repository.go
    │   │
    │   ├── app/                                                -> Application's Endpoint List and Application's Initiator
    │   │   └── app.go
    │   │
    │   └── core/
    │       ├── domain/
    │       │   ├── entity/                                     -> Bridge for Request and Model
    │       │   │   ├── auth_entity.go
    │       │   │   ├── category_entity.go
    │       │   │   ├── content_entity.go
    │       │   │   ├── file_upload_entity.go
    │       │   │   ├── jwt_entity.go
    │       │   │   ├── middleware_entity.go
    │       │   │   ├── page_entity.go
    │       │   │   └── user_entity.go
    │       │   │
    │       │   └── model/                                      -> Database Struct
    │       │       ├── category_model.go
    │       │       ├── content_model.go
    │       │       └── user_model.go
    │       │
    │       └── service/                                        -> Application's Usecase (business logic)
    │           ├── auth_service.go
    │           ├── category_service.go
    │           ├── content_service.go
    │           └── user_service.go
    │
    ├── lib/                                                    -> Reusable functions
    │   ├── auth/
    │   │   └── jwt.go                                          -> JWT Generator and Validator
    │   │
    │   ├── conv/
    │   │   └── conv.go                                         -> Slug generator, Generate Password Hash, Check Password Hash, and Data Type Converter
    │   │
    │   ├── middleware/
    │   │   └── middleware.go                                   -> JWT Checker
    │   │
    │   ├── pagination/
    │   │   ├── error.go                                        -> Error response for invalid pagination
    │   │   └── pagination.go                                   -> Global pagination method
    │   │
    │   └── validatorLib/
    │       └── validatorLib.go                                 -> Custom struct validator
    │
    ├── temp/
    │   └── content/                                            -> Temporary place for admin-uploaded images that will be uploaded to R2
    │       └── .gitkeep                                        -> Ensure that the folder exists when git pushing
    │
    ├── .air.toml.example                                       -> Air default configuration example
    ├── .env.example                                            -> Environment table
    ├── docker-compose.yml                                      -> Project's docker-compose
    ├── Dockerfile                                              -> Custom image for the project (minimal build & size)
    ├── go.mod                                                  -> Go module
    ├── go.sum                                                  -> Go module checksum
    ├── main.go                                                 -> Main entrypoint of the application
    └── README.md                                               -> Backend-Specific documentation
```

## Packages needed for this project
#### Air - Hot Reload for Golang
```bash
go install github.com/air-verse/air@latest
```

#### ZeroLog
```bash
go get -u github.com/rs/zerolog/log
```

#### Gorm & PostgreSQL Driver
```bash
go get -u gorm.io/gorm
go get -u gorm.io/driver/postgres
```

#### Viper & Cobra
```bash
go get -u github.com/spf13/viper
go get -u github.com/spf13/cobra
```

#### Golang-Migrate for PostgreSQL
```bash
go install -tags 'postgres' github.com/golang-migrate/migrate/v4/cmd/migrate@latest
```

#### AWS
```bash
go get -u github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go-v2/aws
go get -u github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go-v2/config
go get -u github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go-v2/service/dynamodb
go get -u github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go-v2/service/s3
```

#### Golang-JWT
```bash
go get -u github.com/golang-jwt/jwt/v5
```

#### GoFiber V2
```bash
go get -u github.com/gofiber/fiber/v2
```

#### GoFiber Swagger (API Documentation)
```bash
go get github.com/gofiber/contrib/swagger
```

## How to Use
> Development Environment
1. Rename `.air.tom.example` as `.air.toml` for Hot-Reload functionality (after installing the Air CLI)
2. **IMPORTANT!** Rename `.env.example` as `.env` for Application Environment! (application won't work without the `.env` file)
3. Add the value of Database, JWT Secret Key, JWT Issuer, and Cloudflare Object Storage credentials in the renamed `.env` file

> Production Environment
1. Change the `APP_ENV` to `production`, this is because Swagger is set to watch `APP_ENV` variable. (Swagger's API Documentation only work in `development` environment)
2. **NOT RECOMMENDED** to use `air` for Production.

## Start the project
> With Hot-Reload
```
air
```
> Without Hot-Reload
```
go run main.go
```

## Docker Implementation
This project can be run with Docker, using the following command:
```bash
docker compose up && build -d
```

This project's Dockerfile is built using the minimal image, so it won't need large amounts of space.

Commit message:

[Backend] Added new docker compose with database included & README update

backend/README.md, after:

# newsportal-backend

## Table of Contents
1. [Project Structure](#backend-project-structure)
2. [Project's Packages](#packages-needed-for-this-project)
3. [How to Use](#how-to-use)
4. [Start the Project](#start-the-project)
5. [Docker Implementation](#docker-implementation)

## Backend Project Structure
```
newsportal/
└── backend/
    ├── cmd/
    │   ├── root.go                                             -> Config Initialization and Executor
    │   └── start.go                                            -> Server Runner
    │
    ├── config/
    │   ├── cloudflareR2.go                                     -> Cloudflare Object Storage Config Loader
    │   ├── config.go                                           -> Environment Table Reader
    │   └── database.go                                         -> Database Configuration
    │
    ├── database/
    │   ├── migrations/                                         -> Database Migration File (using go-migrate)
    │   │   ├── 000001_create_users_table.down.sql              -> Drop Table Users
    │   │   ├── 000001_create_users_table.up.sql                -> Create Table Users
    │   │   ├── 000002_create_categories_table.down.sql         -> Drop Table Categories
    │   │   ├── 000002_create_categories_table.up.sql           -> Create Table Categories
    │   │   ├── 000003_create_contents_table.down.sql           -> Drop Table Contents
    │   │   └── 000003_create_contents_table.up.sql             -> Create Table Contents
    │   │
    │   └── seeds/                                              -> Database Seed File
    │       └── user_seeder.go                                  -> Users table Seeder
    │
    ├── docs/                                                   -> API Documentation using Swagger
    │   └── swagger.json                                        -> Definition Table for Swagger
    │
    ├── internal/
    │   ├── adapter/
    │   │   ├── cloudflare/                                     -> Cloudflare Interaction
    │   │   │   └── r2.go
    │   │   │
    │   │   ├── handler/                                        -> Main Application Handler
    │   │   │   ├── request/                                    -> User Input Request
    │   │   │   │   ├── auth_request.go
    │   │   │   │   ├── category_request.go
    │   │   │   │   ├── content_request.go
    │   │   │   │   ├── file_upload_request.go
    │   │   │   │   └── user_request.go
    │   │   │   │
    │   │   │   ├── response/                                   -> Application's Response
    │   │   │   │   ├── auth_response.go
    │   │   │   │   ├── category_response.go
    │   │   │   │   ├── content_response.go
    │   │   │   │   ├── default_response.go
    │   │   │   │   └── user_response.go
    │   │   │   │
    │   │   │   ├── auth_handler.go
    │   │   │   ├── category_handler.go
    │   │   │   ├── content_handler.go
    │   │   │   └── user_handler.go
    │   │   │
    │   │   └── repository/                                     -> Application's Repository
    │   │       ├── auth_repository.go
    │   │       ├── category_repository.go
    │   │       ├── content_repository.go
    │   │       └── user_repository.go
    │   │
    │   ├── app/                                                -> Application's Endpoint List and Application's Initiator
    │   │   └── app.go
    │   │
    │   └── core/
    │       ├── domain/
    │       │   ├── entity/                                     -> Bridge for Request and Model
    │       │   │   ├── auth_entity.go
    │       │   │   ├── category_entity.go
    │       │   │   ├── content_entity.go
    │       │   │   ├── file_upload_entity.go
    │       │   │   ├── jwt_entity.go
    │       │   │   ├── middleware_entity.go
    │       │   │   ├── page_entity.go
    │       │   │   └── user_entity.go
    │       │   │
    │       │   └── model/                                      -> Database Struct
    │       │       ├── category_model.go
    │       │       ├── content_model.go
    │       │       └── user_model.go
    │       │
    │       └── service/                                        -> Application's Usecase (business logic)
    │           ├── auth_service.go
    │           ├── category_service.go
    │           ├── content_service.go
    │           └── user_service.go
    │
    ├── lib/                                                    -> Reusable functions
    │   ├── auth/
    │   │   └── jwt.go                                          -> JWT Generator and Validator
    │   │
    │   ├── conv/
    │   │   └── conv.go                                         -> Slug generator, Generate Password Hash, Check Password Hash, and Data Type Converter
    │   │
    │   ├── middleware/
    │   │   └── middleware.go                                   -> JWT Checker
    │   │
    │   ├── pagination/
    │   │   ├── error.go                                        -> Error response for invalid pagination
    │   │   └── pagination.go                                   -> Global pagination method
    │   │
    │   └── validatorLib/
    │       └── validatorLib.go                                 -> Custom struct validator
    │
    ├── temp/
    │   └── content/                                            -> Temporary place for admin-uploaded images that will be uploaded to R2
    │       └── .gitkeep                                        -> Ensure that the folder exists when git pushing
    │
    ├── .air.toml.example                                       -> Air default configuration example
    ├── .env.example                                            -> Environment table
    ├── docker-compose.postgres.yml                             -> Docker compose for the project WITH pgAdmin and PostgreSQL built in
    ├── docker-compose.yml                                      -> Docker compose for the project WITHOUT pgAdmin and PostgreSQL
    ├── Dockerfile                                              -> Custom image for the project (minimal build & size)
    ├── go.mod                                                  -> Go module
    ├── go.sum                                                  -> Go module checksum
    ├── main.go                                                 -> Main entrypoint of the application
    └── README.md                                               -> Backend-Specific documentation
```

## Packages needed for this project
#### Air - Hot Reload for Golang
```bash
go install github.com/air-verse/air@latest
```

#### ZeroLog
```bash
go get -u github.com/rs/zerolog/log
```

#### Gorm & PostgreSQL Driver
```bash
go get -u gorm.io/gorm
go get -u gorm.io/driver/postgres
```

#### Viper & Cobra
```bash
go get -u github.com/spf13/viper
go get -u github.com/spf13/cobra
```

#### Golang-Migrate for PostgreSQL
```bash
go install -tags 'postgres' github.com/golang-migrate/migrate/v4/cmd/migrate@latest
```

#### AWS
```bash
go get -u github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go-v2/aws
go get -u github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go-v2/config
go get -u github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go-v2/service/dynamodb
go get -u github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go-v2/service/s3
```

#### Golang-JWT
```bash
go get -u github.com/golang-jwt/jwt/v5
```

#### GoFiber V2
```bash
go get -u github.com/gofiber/fiber/v2
```

#### GoFiber Swagger (API Documentation)
```bash
go get github.com/gofiber/contrib/swagger
```

## How to Use
> Development Environment
1. Rename `.air.tom.example` as `.air.toml` for Hot-Reload functionality (after installing the Air CLI)
2. **IMPORTANT!** Rename `.env.example` as `.env` for Application Environment! (application won't work without the `.env` file)
3. Add the value of Database, JWT Secret Key, JWT Issuer, and Cloudflare Object Storage credentials in the renamed `.env` file

> Production Environment
1. Change the `APP_ENV` to `production`, this is because Swagger is set to watch `APP_ENV` variable. (Swagger's API Documentation only work in `development` environment)
2. **NOT RECOMMENDED** to use `air` for Production.

## Start the project
> With Hot-Reload
```
air
```
> Without Hot-Reload
```
go run main.go
```

## Docker Implementation
There are 2 versions of Docker Compose, one with PostgreSQL 16.8 Alpine and latest version of pgAdmin built in, and one without. This is to accomodate user who hasn't have Database Server.

To run :
> Docker Compose with PostgreSQL and pgAdmin
```
docker compose -f docker-compose.postgres.yml up --build -d
```

> Docker Compose without PostgreSQL and pgAdmin
```
docker compose -f docker-compose.yml up --build -d
```

To access pgAdmin, go to `http://localhost-or-ip-address:port`
